---
layout: country
lang: en
permalink: /democratic republic of the congo/
iso3: COD
iso2: CD
name: Dem. Rep. Congo
admin: Democratic Republic of the Congo
contact: 
flag: cd.svg
osmLink: https://openstreetmap.org/relation/192795
calendar: 
tm-projects: 
   - id: 102
     desc: Many refugees are reported in the Goma region following the rebellion of Nord-Kivu. Sanitation and water problems and cholera are to be addressed rapidly. You are invite to contribute by mapping the immediate region of Goma. 
   - id: 108
     desc: Following the Insecurity and violence in north of congo, many displaced people are reported along the lake Kivu. Sanitation and water problems and cholera are to be addressed rapidly. Many humanitarian efforts are ongoing in this area and you are invited to contribute by mapping the lake Kivu area.  Suite à l'insécurité et la violence au nord du Congo, de nombreuses personnes déplacées sont signalés le long de la lac Kivu. Des problèmes d'assainissement et d'eau et le choléra mobilisent également les autorités sanitaires. De nombreuses actions humanitaires sont en cours et vous êtes invités à contribuer par la cartographie de la région du lac Kivu.
   - id: 109
     desc: Following the Insecurity and violence in north of congo, many refugees are reported along the lake Kivu. Sanitation and water problems and cholera are to be addressed rapidly. Many humanitarian efforts are ongoing in this area and you are invited to contribute by mapping the lake Kivu area.  ==================================================== Suite à l'insécurité et la violence au nord du Congo, de nombreux réfugiés sont signalés le long de la lac Kivu. Des problèmes d'assainissement et d'eau et le choléra mobilisent également les autorités sanitaires. De nombreuses actions humanitaires sont en cours et vous êtes invités à contribuer par la cartographie de la région du lac Kivu.
   - id: 113
     desc: A two part mapping task to for the city of Kalemie, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.  Mapping work to help improve the western Congo for MSF.
   - id: 118
     desc: This job is to map Uvira area where there is a cholera epidemy.  The causes of this epidemic are. rainfall, disruption of the supply of drinking water in several areas of Uvira, poor sanitation and lack of latrines especially in neighborhoods along the lake.  Cette tâche a pour objectif de cartographier la zone de Uvira où une épidémie de choléra est en cours.  Les causes de cette épidémie sont . les pluies abondantes, les perturbations de la fourniture d’eau potable dans plusieurs quartiers d’Uvira, le manque d’assainissement et l’insuffisance des latrines surtout dans les quartiers le long du lac.
   - id: 122
     desc: Following the Insecurity and violence in north of congo, many refugees are reported along the lake Kivu. Sanitation and water problems and cholera are to be addressed rapidly. Many humanitarian efforts are ongoing in this area and you are invited to contribute by mapping the lake Kivu area.  Suite à l'insécurité et la violence au nord du Congo, de nombreux réfugiés sont signalés le long du lac Kivu. Des problèmes d'assainissement et d'eau et le choléra mobilisent également les autorités sanitaires. De nombreuses actions humanitaires sont en cours et vous êtes invités à contribuer par la cartographie de la région du lac Kivu.
   - id: 125
     desc: Road network . The RN5 road is an important link to bring humanitarian help to the North-Kivu. This task is to trace the RN5 and other roads of the sector. Réseau routier . La RN5 est un lien important pour amener l'aide humanitaire vers le Nord-Kivu. Cette tâche a pour objectif de tracer la RN5 et les autres routes du secteur.
   - id: 126
     desc: The RN5 road is an important link to bring humanitarian help to the North-Kivu. This task is to trace the RN5 and other roads of the sector. La RN5 est un lien important pour amener l'aide humanitaire vers le Nord-Kivu. Cette tâche a pour objectif de tracer la RN5 et les autres routes du secteur.
   - id: 140
     desc: Road Network . trace the RN2 and other roads of the sector. Réseau routier .tracer la RN2 et les autres routes du secteur.
   - id: 185
     desc: As part of the EUROSHA project (EURopean Open-Source Humanitarian Aid), 7 European and Burundi's volunteers are active mapping using OSM in Burundi for 6 months between October, 2012 and April, 2013. Hosted by France Volontaires International (FVI), they will answer geographical needs common to humanitarian, development and government actors.
   - id: 212
     desc: A task to map the roads and buildings in and around the city of Kitchanga, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
   - id: 352
     desc: Following conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, humanitarian organizations need maps to plan distribution of food to the displaced and vulnerable populations.  Suite aux divers combats dans la République démocratique du Congo, les organisations humanitaires ont besoin des cartes pour planifier la distribution de nourriture aux populations déplacées et vulnérables.
   - id: 458
     desc: The serious humanitarian situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has increased the need for updated foundation geographic data. Through the MapGive project, the Humanitarian Information Unit (HIU) of the U.S. Department of State is providing the OpenStreetMap community access to updated satellite imagery services to help assist with humanitarian mapping.
   - id: 468
     desc: Ongoing instability and internal displacement has increased the need for updated foundation geographic data in the eastern portion of Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), specifically Maniema province.  Through the MapGive project, the Humanitarian Information Unit (HIU) of the U.S. Department of State is providing the OpenStreetMap community access to updated satellite imagery services to help assist with humanitarian mapping.
   - id: 467
     desc: Ongoing instability and internal displacement has increased the need for updated foundation geographic data in the eastern portion of Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), specifically Maniema province.  Through the MapGive project, the Humanitarian Information Unit (HIU) of the U.S. Department of State is providing the OpenStreetMap community access to updated satellite imagery services to help assist with humanitarian mapping.
   - id: 751
     desc: 
   - id: 1222
     desc: Nyabibwe is located 97 km north of Bukavu in Kalehe territory , South Kivu and is known for its tin mine Kalimbi (cassiterite) . The mine is situated 5 km from Nyabibwe town.
   - id: 1228
     desc: Lubumbashi has been partially mapped at the request of MSF to help the organisation respond to the frequent disease outbreaks that hit the city. Missing Maps / HOT and the OSM lubumbashi group have completed the field mapping, so that MSF can use the data in outbreak surveillance and response. To conduct effective epidemiology, building level data is needed, and while Lubumbashi is very well mapped, a lot of neighbourhoods are lacking in this area. Please help us complete the tracing, so that the data can be used in the coming weeks. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur.
   - id: 1394
     desc: For a week, Kinshasa suffered more frequent heavy rains than usual. In many places, drainage is inadequate. Several districts are currently under water, walls crumble, people find themselves without a roof, and a large part of the city is deprived of drinking water and electricity. It is urgent to have accurate mapping of settlements, streets, waterways and land use.
   - id: 1432
     desc: This task is part of a Missing Maps initiative to add data collected in the field in a variety of formats to OSM. Updating the basemap with highways and residential areas from Bing imagery is required as part of the workflow. Once this task is completed, mappers will digitise data from maps supplied by MSF in the field. This area in Katanga, Congo (DRC) sees frequent, large-scale medical interventions from local MSF teams. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur.
   - id: 1490
     desc: Manono has been partially mapped through another HOT project, but to conduct effective epidemiology, building level data is needed, and a lot of neighbourhoods in Manono are lacking in this area. Please help us complete the tracing of buildings and residential roads, so that the data can be used by MSF teams. This area of Katanga sees frequent disease outbreaks and the MSF Katanga Emergency Response Unit has identified it as a priority area for mapping. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur.
   - id: 1655
     desc: Kambove has been partially mapped through another HOT project, but to conduct effective epidemiology, building level data is needed, and a lot of neighbourhoods in Likasi are lacking in this area. Please help us complete the tracing of buildings and residential roads, so that the data can be used by MSF teams when disease outbreaks occur. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur.
   - id: 1695
     desc: Fungurume has been partially mapped through another HOT project, but to conduct effective epidemiology, building level data is needed, and a lot of neighbourhoods in Fungurume are lacking in this area. Please help us complete the tracing of buildings and residential roads, so that the data can be used by MSF teams. This area of Katanga sees frequent disease outbreaks and the MSF Katanga Emergency Response Unit has identified it as a priority area for mapping. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur.
   - id: 1900
     desc: The Democratic Republic of Congo is a priority country for the Missing Maps project. South Kivu is a province of DRC that, for decades, has faced unceasing humanitarian crises. With constantly changing conflicts, seasonal disease epidemics and a population in constant flux, MSF and other NGOs have permanent presences here.  There is no freely available mapping data available for the province, aside from that which has been already generously contributed by the HOT community in response to very specific crises. The Missing Maps has launched the Map South Kivu project to map the entire province, both remotely and through local community mapping. See here for a video introduction to mapping South Kivu. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur.
   - id: 1910
     desc: Médecins Sans Frontière is working in Bunia, RDC, a fast growing city (capital of the province) on preventing cholera crises and security issues. In order to help them make the best decisions possible, having the most accurate overview of everything related to roads and buildings in these areas would be an invaluable asset. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur.
   - id: 1932
     desc: The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur. Satellite imagery for this project is kindly provided by Digital Globe through their +Vivid service.
   - id: 1968
     desc: Validation needed! MSF teams, in collaboration with the Congolese Ministry of Health, provide care for thousands of people in Masisi General Hospital and other health centres in the area, including the provision of HIV care. MSF also organises mobile clinics, which respond to the needs of people affected by violence, insecurity and poor access to healthcare, some of whom have have been forced to flee their homes. Mapping this area will help MSF to identify vulnerable populations, plan and manage medical interventions and provide better care for those displaced by violence. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur. Satellite imagery for this project is kindly provided by Digital Globe through their +Vivid service.
   - id: 1982
     desc: MSF teams, in collaboration with the Congolese Ministry of Health, provide care for thousands of people in Masisi General Hospital and other health centres in the area, including the provision of HIV care. MSF also organises mobile clinics, which respond to the needs of people affected by violence, insecurity and poor access to healthcare, some of whom have have been forced to flee their homes. Mapping this area will help MSF to identify vulnerable populations, plan and manage medical interventions and provide better care for those displaced by violence. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur. Satellite imagery for this project is kindly provided by Digital Globe through their +Vivid service.
   - id: 2164
     desc: Validation needed! Please validate residential areas and road networks! MSF teams, in collaboration with the Congolese Ministry of Health, provide care for thousands of people in Masisi General Hospital and other health centres in the area, including the provision of HIV care. MSF also organises mobile clinics, which respond to the needs of people affected by violence, insecurity and poor access to healthcare, some of whom have have been forced to flee their homes. Mapping this area will help MSF to identify vulnerable populations, plan and manage medical interventions and provide better care for those displaced by violence. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur. Satellite imagery for this project is kindly provided by Digital Globe through their +Vivid service.
   - id: 2329
     desc: Validation needed! Need newer imagery to validate (DigitalGlobe Vivid no longer available via Mapbox) MSF teams, in collaboration with the Congolese Ministry of Health, provide care for thousands of people in Masisi General Hospital and other health centres in the area, including the provision of HIV care. MSF also organises mobile clinics, which respond to the needs of people affected by violence, insecurity and poor access to healthcare, some of whom have have been forced to flee their homes. Mapping this area will help MSF to identify vulnerable populations, plan and manage medical interventions and provide better care for those displaced by violence. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur. Satellite imagery for this project is kindly provided by Digital Globe through their +Vivid service.
   - id: 2328
     desc: Set as high priority as we lose access to the imagery this month and want to complete the area before we do MSF teams, in collaboration with the Congolese Ministry of Health, provide care for thousands of people in Masisi General Hospital and other health centres in the area, including the provision of HIV care. MSF also organises mobile clinics, which respond to the needs of people affected by violence, insecurity and poor access to healthcare, some of whom have have been forced to flee their homes. Mapping this area will help MSF to identify vulnerable populations, plan and manage medical interventions and provide better care for those displaced by violence. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur. Satellite imagery for this project is kindly provided by Digital Globe through their +Vivid service.
   - id: 2579
     desc: This project is restricted to the participants to the OSM training taking in place in Kinshasa from the 22nd to the 24th of February 2017.
   - id: 2608
     desc: Only for intermediate mappers, JOSM users In the beginning of March, after the request made by the International Committee of the Red Cross, CartONG and the Missing Maps project started mapping Goma in DRC. This city was weakened by various crisis that the country endured for the last 20 years, the city also grew a lot due to a strong demographic growth in the last 10 years.
   - id: 2700
     desc: For JOSM users Trial workflow for entering POIs collected in the field. See instructions tab.
   - id: 2843
     desc: The Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS), an NGO focused on protecting species worldwide, and the International Peace Information Service (IPIS), an NGO delivering data and analysis on peace topics, sustainable development and the fulfillment of human rights. This project aims to map road, residential areas and if possible artisanal mining activities in the park. There are many stresses in the national parks of DRC, including deforestation, illegal hunting (poaching) and armed-actor controlled artisanal mining. 
   - id: 2881
     desc: 
   - id: 3288
     desc: Validation needed! Sleeping sickness or Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT) is endemic in 36 African countries and around 13 million people are at medium to high risk of being infected. HAT is transmitted by the tsetse fly and is usually fatal without treatment.
   - id: 3360
     desc: Ce projet est actuellement réservé aux participants au mapathon OSM prenant place à Kinshasa le 29 juillet 2017.
   - id: 3420
     desc: This project is for experienced JOSM mappers This is a project to coordinate the entry of the points of interest data collected on the ground in South Kivu by the Ministry of Health and MSF.  
   - id: 4004
     desc: Validation needed! The Democratic Republic of Congo is a priority country for the Missing Maps. South Kivu is a province of DRC that, for decades, has faced unceasing humanitarian crises. With constantly changing conflicts, seasonal disease epidemics and a population in constant flux, MSF and other NGOs have permanent presences here.  There is no freely available mapping data available for the province, aside from that which has been already generously contributed by the HOT community in response to very specific crises. The Missing Maps has launched the Map South Kivu project to map the entire province, both remotely and through local community mapping. See here for a video introduction to mapping South Kivu. The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises. disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur.
   - id: 4077
     desc: This project is restricted to the participants to the OSM mapathon taking in place in Kinshasa on the 27th of January 2018.
bbox: 12.182336866920252,-13.257226657771831,31.174149204235817,5.256087754737123
---